REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #1





I have just realized that the stakes are myself

I have no other

ransom money, nothing to break or barter but my life

my spirit measured out, in bits, spread over

the roulette table, I recoup what I can

nothing else to shove under the nose of the maitre de jeu

nothing to thrust out the window, no white flag

this flesh all I have to offer, to make the play with

this immediate head, what it comes up with, my move

as we slither over this go board, stepping always

(we hope) between the lines





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #2





The value of an individual life a credo they taught us

to instill fear, and inaction, ‘you only live once’

a fog in our eyes, we are

endless as the sea, not separate, we die

a million times a day, we are born

a million times, each breath life and death :

get up, put on your shoes, get

started, someone will finish

Tribe

an organism, one flesh, breathing joy as the stars breathe destiny down on us, get

going, join hands, see to business, thousands of sons will see to it when you fall, you will grow a thousand times in the bellies of your sisters





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #3





store water; make a point of filling your bathtub

at the first news of trouble : they turned off the water

In the 4th ward for a whole day during the Newark riots;

or better yet make a habit

of keeping the tub clean and full when not in use

change this once a day, it should be good enough

for washing, flushing toilets when necessary

for cooking, in a pinch, but it’s a good idea

to keep some bottled water handy too

get a couple of five gallon jugs and keep them full

for cooking

store food — dry stuff like rice and beans stores best

goes farthest. SALT VERY IMPORTANT : it’s health and energy healing too, keep a couple pounds

sea salt around, and, because we’re spoiled, some tins

lima, etc. to keep up morale — keep up the sense of ’balanced diet’ ‘protein intake’ remember thee stores may be closed for quite some time, the trucks may not enter your section of the city for weeks, you can cool it

indefinitely

with 20 lb brown rice

20 lb whole wheat flour

10 lb cornmeal

10 lb good beans — kidney or soy

5 lb sea salt

2 qts good oil

dried fruit and nuts

add nutrients and a sense of luxury

In this diet, a squash or coconut

In a cool place in your pad will keep six months

remember we are all used to eating less than the ‘average American’ and take it easy before we

ever notice we’re hungry the rest of the folk will be starving

used as they are to meat and fresh milk daily

and help will arrive, until the day no help arrives

and then you’re on your own.

hoard matches, we aren’t good

at rubbing sticks together any more

a tinder box is useful, if

you can work it don’t count on gas stove, gas heater

electric light

keep hibachi and charcoal, CHARCOAL STARTER a help

kerosene lamp and candles, learn to keep warm

with breathing

remember the blessed American habit of bundling





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #4





Left to themselves people

grow their hair.

Left to themselves they hike off their shoes.

Left to themselves they make love

sleep easily

share blankets, dope & children

they are not lazy or afraid

they plant seeds, they smile, they

speak to one another. The word

coming into its own : touch of love

on the brain, the ear.

We return with the sea, the tides

we return as often as leaves, as numerous

as grass, gentle, insistent, we remember

the way,

our babes toddle barefoot thru the cities of the universe.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #5





at some point

you may be called upon

to keep going for several days without sleep;

keep some ups around, to be

clearheaded, avoid ‘comedown’ as much as possible,

take vitamin B along with amphetamines, try

powdered guarana root, available

at herb drugstores, it is an up

used by Peruvian mountainfolk, tastes

like mocha (bitter) can be put in tea

will clear your head, increase oxygen supply

keep you going past amphetamine wooziness

at some point

you may have to crash, under tension, keep some downs on hand, you may have to cool out sickness, or freak-out, or sorrow, keep some downs on hand, I don’t mean

tranquilizers, ye olde fashioned SLEEPING PILL

(sleep heals heads, heals souls) chloryll hydrate

(Mickey Finn) one of the best, but

nembutal, etc. OK in a pinch, remember

no liquor with barbituates

at some point

you will need painkillers, darvon

is glorified shit, stash some codeine & remember

it’s about five times more effective

if taken with aspirin

ups, downs & painkillers are

the essence : antibiotics

for extreme infections, any good

wide-spectrum one will do, avoid penicillin

too many allergies, speaking of which

cortisone is good for really bad attacks

(someone who freaks out asthma-style, or with hives)

USE ALL THESE AS LITTLE

as possible, side effects multifarious

and they cloud the brain

tend to weaken the body and obscure

judgment

ginseng tea, ginger compresses, sea salt,

prayer and love

nc better healers, easier come by, save the others

for life and death trips, you will know

when you see one





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #6





avoid the folk

who find Bonnie and Clyde too violent

who see the blood but not the energy form

they love us and want us to practice birth control

they love us and want the Hindus to kill their cows

they love us and have a colorless tasteless powder

which is the perfect synthetic food . . .





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #7





There are those who can tell you

how (o make molotov cocktails, flamethrowers,

bombs whatever

you might be needing

find them and learn, define

your aim clearly, choose your ammo

with that in mind

it is not a good idea to tote a gun

or knife

unless you are proficient in its use

all words are two-edged, can be used against you

by anyone who can get ’em away from you

it is

possible even on the east coast

to find an isolated place for target practice

success

will depend mostly on your state of mind :

meditate, pray, make love, be prepared

at any time, to die

but don’t get uptight : the guns

will not win this one, they are

an incidental part of the action

which we better damn well be good at,

what will win

is mantras, the sustenance we give each other,

the energy we plug into

(the fact that we touch

share food)

the buddha nature

of everyone, friend and foe, like a million earthworms

tunnelling under this structure

till it falls





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #8





Everytime you pick the spot for a be-in

a demonstration, a march, a rally, you are choosing the ground

for a potential battle.

You are still calling these shots.

Pick your terrain with that in mind.

Remember the old gang rules :

stick to your neighborhood, don’t let them lure you

to Central Park everytime, I would hate

to stumble bloody out of that park to find help :

Central Park West, or Fifth Avenue, which would you

choose?

goto love-ins

with incense, flowers, food, and a plastic bag

with a damp cloth in it, for tear gas, wear no jewelry

wear clothes you can move in easily, wear no glasses

contact lenses

earrings for pierced ears are especially hazardous

Try to be clear

in front, what you will do if it comes

to trouble

if you’re going to try to split stay out of the center

don't stampede or panic others

don’t waver between active and passive resistance

know your limitations, bear contempt

neither for yourself, nor any of your brothers

NO ONE WAY WORKS, it will take all of us

shoving at the thing from all sides

to bring it down.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #9





advocating

the overthrow of government is a crime

overthrowing it is something else

altogether, it is sometimes called

revolution

but don’t kid yourself : government

is not where it’s at : it’s only

a good place to start :

1. kill head of Dow Chemical

2. destroy plant

3. MAKE IT UNPROFITABLE FOR THEM

to build again.

i.e., destroy the concept of money

as we know it, get rid of interest,

savings, inheritance

(Pound’s money, as dated coupons that come in the mail

to everyone, and are void in 30 days

is still a good idea)

or, let’s start with no money at all and invent it

if we need it

or, mimeograph it and everyone

print as much as they want

and see what happens

declare a moratorium on debt

the Continental Congress did

‘on all debts public and private’

& no one ‘owns’ the land

it can be held

for use, no man holding more

than he can work, himself and family working

let no one work for another

except for love, and what you make

above your needs be given to the tribe

a Common-Wealth

None of us knows the answers, think about

these things.

The day will come when we will have to know

the answers.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #10





These are transitional years and the dues

will be heavy.

Change is quick but revolution

will take a while.

America has not even begun as yet.

This continent is seed.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #11





drove across

San Joaquin Valley

with Kirby Doyle

grooving

gettng free Digger meat

for Free City Convention

gioovlng

hi hind talk of Kirby’s family |•<« n liere a long time

gmovlng

friendship renewed, neat pickup truck, we stopped

at a gas station

man uptight at the

sight of us, sight of Kirby’s hair, his friendly

loose face, my hair, our dress

man surly, uptight, we drove

away brought down

(across fields of insecticide and migrant workers)

and

Man' I said ‘that cat

so uptight, what’s he

so uptight about, it’s not

your hair, not really, it’s just

that the TV tells him about hippies

got him scared, what he reads in

his magazines

got him scared, we got to

come out from behind the image

sat down with him, if he

sat down to a beer with you he’d find

a helluva lot more to say than he’ll find

with the man who makes your image

he's got nothing in common

with the men who run his mind, who tell him

what to think of us’

SMASH THE MEDIA, I said,

AND BURN THE SCHOOLS

so people can meet, can sit

and talk to each other, warm and close

no TV image flickering

between them.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #12





the vortex of creation is the vortex of destruction

the vortex of artistic creation is the vortex of self destuction

the vortex of political creation is the vortex of flesh destruction flesh is in the fire, it curls and terribly warps

fat is in the fire,

it drips and sizzling sings

bones are in the fire

they crack tellingly in

subtle hieroglyphs of oracle

charcoal singed

the smell of your burning hair

for every revolutionary must at last will his own destruction

rooted as he is in the past he sets out to destroy





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #13





now let me tell you

what is a Brahmasastra

Brahmasastra, hindu weapon of war

near as I can make out

a flying wedge of mind energy

hurled at the foe by god or hero

or many heroes

hurled at a problem or enemy

cracking it

Brahmasastra can be made

by any or all

can be made by all of us

straight or tripping, thinking together

like : all of us stop the war

at nine o’clock tomorrow, each take one soldier

see him clearly, love him, take the gun

out of his hand, lead him to a quiet spot

sit him down,

sit with him as he takes a joint

of viet cong grass from his pocket . . .

Brahmasastra can be made

by all of us, tripping together

winter solstice

at home, or in park, or wandering

sitting with friends

blinds closed, or on porch, no be-in

no need

to gather publicity

just gather spirit, see the forest growing

put back the big trees

put back the buffalo

the grasslands of the midwest with their herds

of elk and deer

put fish in clean Great Lakes

desire that all surface water on the planet

be clean again. Kneel down and drink

from whatever brook or lake you conjure up.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #14





are you prepared

to hide someone in your home indefinitely

say, two to six weeks, you going out

for food, etc., so he never

hits the street, to keep your friends away

coolly, so they ask no questions, to nurse

him, or her, as necessary, to know

‘first aid’ and healing (not to freak out

at the sight of torn or half-cooked flesh)

to pass him on at the right time to the next

station, to cross the Canadian border, with a child

so that the three of you

look like one family, no questions asked

or fewer, to stash letters, guns, or bombs

forget about them

till they are called for, to KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT

not to ‘trust’

even your truelove, that is,

lay no more knowledge on him than he needs

to do his part of it, a kindness

we all must extend to each other in this game





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #15





When you seize Columbia, when you

seize Paris, take

the media, tell the people what you’re doing

what you’re up to and why and how you mean

to do it, how they can help, keep the news

coming, steady, you have 70 years

of media conditioning to combat, it is a wall

you must get through, somehow, to reach

the instinctive man, who is struggling like a plant

for light, for air

when you seize a town, a campus, get hold of the power stations, the water, the transportation,

forget to negotiate, forget how

to negotiate, don’t wait for De Gaulle or Kirk

to abdicate, they won’t, you are not

demonstrating’ you are fighting

a war fight to win, don’t wait for Johnson

or Humphrey or Rockefeller, to agree to your terms

take what you need, ‘it’s free

becaus it’s yours’





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #16





we are eating up the planet, the New York Times

takes a forest, every Sunday, Los Angeles

draws its water from the Sacramento Valley

the rivers of British Columbia are ours

on lease for 99 years

every large factory is an infringement

of our god-given right to light and air

to clean and flowing rivers stocked with fish

to the very possibility of life

for our children’s children, we will have to

look carefully, i.e., do we really want/

need

electricity and at what cost in natural resource human resource

do we need cars, when petroleum pumped from the earth poisons the land around for 100 years, pumped from the car poisons the hard-pressed cities, or try this statistic, the USA

has 5% of the world’s people uses over 50% of the world’s goods, our garbage holds matter for survival for uncounted ‘underdeveloped’ nations





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #17





we will all feel the pinch

there will not be

a cadillllac and a 40,000 dollar home

for everyone

simply

the planet will not bear it.

What there will be is enough

food enough

of the ‘necessities’, luxuries

will have to go by the board

even the poorest of us

will have to give up something

to live free





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #18





let’s talk about splitting, splitting is an art

frequently called upon in revolution

retreat, says the I Ching, must not be confused

with flight, and furthermore, frequently, it furthers

ONE TO HAVE SOMEWHERE TO GO

i.e., know in advance

the persons/place you can go to

means to get there

keep money (cash) in house for travelling an extra set of i.d., Robert Williams was warned by his own TV set when the Man was coming for him,

he had his loot at home, his wife and kids all crossed the country with him, into CANADA

and on to CUBA

it’s a good idea

to have good, working transportation ‘wheels’, one friend

has two weeks stashed in his VW bus

food, water, matches, clothing, blankets, gas, he can go

at least that long, before he hits a town, can leave

at any time

something to think about . . .





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #19


for Poor People’s Campaign





if what you want is jobs

for everyone, you are still the enemy,

you have not thought thru, clearly

what that means

of what you want is housing,

Industry

(GE on the Navaho

reservation)

a car for everyone, garage, refrigerator,

TV. more plumbing, scientific

freeways, you are still

the enemy, you have chosen

to sacrifice the planet for a few years of some

science fiction utopia, if what you want

still is, or can be, schools

here all our kids are pushed into one shape, are taught

it's better to be ‘ American ’ than Black

or Indian, or Jap, or PR, where Dick

and Jane become and are the dream, do you

look like Dick’s father, don’t you think your kid

secretly wishes you did

if what you want

In i I lilies where the AMA

can feed you pills to keep you weak, or sterile

shoot germs into your kids, while Merck & Co i'

grows richer

If you want

free psychiatric help for everyone

so that the shrinks

pimps for this decadence, can make

it flower for us, if you want

if you still want a piece

a small piece of suburbia, green lawn

laid down by the square foot

color TV, whose radiant energy

kills brain cells, whose subliminal ads

brainwash your children, have taken over

your dreams

degrees from universities which are nothing more than slum landlords, festering sinks of lies, so you too can go forth and lie to others on some greeny campus

THEN YOU ARE STILL

THE ENEMY, you are selling

yourself short, remember

you can have what you ask for, ask for

everything





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #20


for Huey Newton





I will not rest

till men walk free & fearless on the earth

each doing in the manner of his blood I ribe, peaceful in the free air

till all can seek, unhindered

the shape of their thought

no black cloud fear or guilt

between them & the sun, no babies burning

young men locked away, no paper world

In come between flesh & flesh in human

encounter

till the young women

mine into their own, honored & fearless

birthing strong babes

loving & dancing

till we can at last

lose some of our sternness, return

In our own thoughts, till laughter

bounces off our hills & fills

our plains





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #21





Can you

own land, can you

own house, own rights

to other’s labor, (stocks, or factories

or money, loaned at interest)

what about

the yield of same, crops, autos

airplanes dropping bombs, can you

own real estate, so others pay you rent? to whom

does the water belong, to whom

will the air belong, as it gets rarer?

the american indians say that a man

can own no more than he can carry away

on his horse.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #22





what do you want

your kids to learn, do you care

if they know factoring, chemical formulae, theory

of numbers, equations, philosophy, semantics

symbolic logic, latin, history, socalled, which is

merely history of mind of western man, least interesting

of numberless manifestations on this planet?

do you care

if he learns to eat off the woods, to set •

a broken arm, to mend

his own clothes, cook simple food, deliver

a calf or baby? if there are cars should he not

be able to keep his running?

how will he learn these things, will he learn them i ul oil' in a plaster box, encased

in a larger cement box called ‘school’ dealing with paper

from morning till night, grinding no clay or mortar, no

pigment setting no seedlings in black earth

comee spring, how will he

know to trap a rabbit, build a raft,

to navigate by stars, or find safe ground

to sleep on? what is he doing all his learning years

inside, as if the planet were no more than a vehicle

for carrying our plastic constructs around the sun





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #23





A lack of faith is simply a lack of courage

one who says ‘I wish I could believe that’ means simply

that he

is coward, is pleased

to be spectator, on this scene

where there are no spectators where all hands not actually working are working against

as they lie idle, folded in lap, or holding up newspapers

full of lies, or wrapped around steering wheel, on one more

pleasure trip





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #24





Have you thought about the American aborigines

who will inhabit

this continent? Cave dwellers, tent people, tree dwellers,

will your

great grandchildren be among them? Will they sell

artifactcts — abalone or wool — to the affluent

highly civilized Africans

who come here in the summer, will they wear

buckskin, or cotton, loincloth, run down

deer, catch fish barehanded, build teepees, hogans, remember

to use the wheel, to write, to speak, or simply drum & pipe,

smiling, will your

great grandchildren be among them?





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #25





Know every way

out of your house, where it goes, every alley

on the block, which back yards connect, which walls

are scalable, which bushes will hold a man.

Construct at least one man-sized hiding place

in your walls, know for sure which neighbors

will let you sneak in the back door & saunter out the front

while the Man is parked in your driveway, or tearing

your pad apart, which neighbors won’t be home, which

cellar doors

are open — whom you can summon in your neighborhood to do your errands, check the block, set up a getaway while you sit tight inside & your house is watched . . .





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #26





DOES THE END

JUSTIFY THE MEANS?’ this is

process, there is no end, there are only

means, each one

had better justify itself.

To whom?





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #27





How much

can we afford to lose, before we win, can we

cut hair, or give up drugs, take

job, join Minute Men, marry, wear their clothes,

play bingo, what

can we stomach, how soon

does it leave its mark, can we

living straight in a straight part of town still see

our people, can we live

if we don’t see our people? ‘It is better

to lose & win, than win & be

defeated’ sd Gertrude Stein, which wd you

choose?





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #28





O my brothers

busted for pot, for looting, for loving

young beautiful brothers & sisters, for holding out hope

in both hands to the Man, enraging him

O my sisters, freaking out this moment

this beautiful summer evening

in all the cages of America

while the sun goes down on this fabled & holy land :

I now that we have this land, we are filling its crevices

it's caves and forests, its coastlines and holy places

with our mating flesh, with the fierce play of our children

our numbers increasing

we are approaching your cells, to cut you loose

to march triumphant with you, crying out

to Maitreya, across the Pacific





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #29





beware of those

who say we are the beautiful losers

who stand in their long hair and wait to be punished

who weep on beaches for our isolation

we are not alone : we have brothers in all the hills we have sisters in the jungles and in the ozarks we even have brothers on the frozen tundra they sit by their fires, they sing, they gather arms they multiply : they will reclaim the earth

nowhere we can go but they are waiting for us no exile where we will not hear welcome home ‘ good morning brother, let me work with you goodmorning sister, let me fight by your side ’





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #30


to Those Who Sold the Revolution Summer of ’68





remember to wear a hat, if you have a hat

and stick your hair inside it, if it’s long hair

or don't, wear shoes if it’s snowing and you have shoes

remember they buyout all the leaders, be a leader

if you want to be bought out, but remember to

tell the truth, just before they buy you, tell the truth i Hid, and the kids will hear you, not hear your money

as it falls on the liquorstore counter, day after day

not hear your dreams of nightmare betrayal and torture

not hear your mercedes, they’ll hear the truth you spoke

they'll believe you and honor you after you die, brought down

by that cia bullet you can’t avoid just by taking their money

they'll believe you and DO WHAT YOU SAY

NOTWHAT YOU DO





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #31


for LeRoi, at long last





not all the works of Mozart worth one human life

not all the brocades of the Potala palace

better we should wear homespun, than some in orlon

some in Thailand silk

the children of Bengal weave gold thread in silk saris

six years old, eight years old, for export, they don’t sing

the singers are for export, Folkways records

better we should all have homemade flutes

and practice excruciatingly upon them, one hundred years

till we learn to

make our own music





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #32





not western civilization, but civilization itself

is the disease which is eating us

not the last five thousand years, but the last twenty thousand

are the cancer

not modern cities, but the city, not

capitalism, but ism, art, religion, once they are I

separate enough to be seen and named, named art named

religion, once they are not

simply the daily acts of life which bring the rain, bring bread,

heal, bring

the herds close enough to hunt, birth the children

simply the acts of song, the acts of power, now lost

to us these many years, not killing a few white men will bring

back power, not killing all the white men, but killing

the white man in each of us, killing the desire

for brocade, for gold, for champagne brandy, which sends

people out of the sun and out of their lives to create

COMMODITY for our pleasure, what claim

do we have, can we make, on another’s time, another’s

the blood, show me

a city which does not consume the air and water

for miles around it, mohenjo-daro was a blot

on tbe village culture of India, the cities of Egypt sucked

the life of millions, show me

an artifact of city which has the power

as flesh has power, as spirit of man

has power





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #33





how far back

are we willing to go? that seems to be

the question, the more we give up

the more we will be blessed, the more

we give up, the further back we go, can we

make it under the sky again, in moving tribes

that settle, build, move on and build again

owning only what we carry, do we need

the village, division of labor, a friendly potlatch

a couple of times a year, or must it be

merely a ‘cybernetic civilization’

which may or may not save the water, but will not

show us our root, or our original face, return

us to the source, how far

(forward is back) are we willing to go

after all?





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #34





hey man let’s make a revolution, let’s give

every man a thunderbird

color TV, a refrigerator, free

antibiotics, let’s build

apartments with a separate bedroom for every child

inflatable plastic sofas, vitamin pills

with all our daily requirements that come in the mail

free gas & electric & telephone &

no rent, why not?

hey man, let’s make a revolution, let’s

turn off the power, turn on the

stars at night, put metal

back in the earth, or at least not take it out

anymore, make lots of guitars and flutes, teach the chicks

how to heal with herbs, let’s learn

to live with each other in a smaller space, and build

hogans, and domes and teepees all over the place

BLOW UP THE PETROLEUM LINES, make the cars

into flower pots or sculptures or live

in the bigger ones, why not?





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #35





rise up, my brothers, do not

bow your heads any longer, or pray except to the spirit you waken, the spirit you bring to birth, it never was on earth, rise up, do not

droop, smoking hash or opium, dreaming sweetness, perhapi

there will be time for that, on the long beaches

lying in love with the few of us who are left, but now

the earth cries out for aid, our brothers

and sisters set aside their childhoods, prepare

to fight, what choice have we but join them, in their hands

rests the survival of the very planet, the health

of the solar system, for we are one

with the stars, and the spirit we forge

they wait for, Christ, Buddha, Krishna

Paracelsus, had but a taste, we must reclaim

the planet, re-occupy

this ground

the peace we seek was never seen before, the earth BELONGS, at last, TO THE LIVING





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #36





who is the we, who is

the they in this thing, did

we or they kill the indians, not me Illy people brought here, cheap labor to exploit

a continent for them, did we

or they exploit it? do you

admit complicity, say

have to get out of Vietnam, we really should

stop poisoning the water, etc.’ look closer, look again,

secede, declare your independence, don’t accept

a share of the guilt they want to lay on us

MAN IS INNOCENT & BEAUTIFUL & born

to perfect bliss they envy, heavy deeds

make heavy hearts and to them

life is suffering, stand clear.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #37





GEOGRAPHY, U.S.A.

the east edge is megalopolis, is

Washington, D.C., spread out

800 miles, ecology

totally fucked up, even

the brothers there do not completely believe

that they can win; the west edge

is langorous w/wealth, there venison

is brought down from the hills & figs & wine

from abandoned orchards, the sisters

raise their bastard young on welfare checks & rotten

sprayed vegetables, talk ‘free’, talk end of money, for them

the war is over, all the wars; the middle

is hardly heard from yet, it is

stirring, stretching muscles, bare bones of continent, etern;il progression of young barbarians huge boiling meat-fed hordes who can’t be taught there’s anything to lose, angelic herds whose unholy yell is gonna shake us all





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #38





NOT PEOPLE’S PARK

PEOPLE’S PLANET, CAN THEY

FENCE THAT ONE IN, BULLDOZE IT

4 A.M.?





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #39





let me tell you, sisters, that on May 30th I went to one of our

life festivals

dropped acid in Tompkins Square Park with my

brothers & sisters

danced in the sun, till the stars

came out & the pigs

drove around us in a circle, where we stood

touching each other & loving, then I

went home & made love like a flower, like two flowers

opening

to each other, we were

the jewel in the lotus, next morning still high wandered

uptown

to Natural History Museum & there

in a room of Peruvian fauna, birds

of paradise I saw as a past, like the dinosaurs

saw birds pass from the earth &

flowers, most trees & small creatures :

chipmunks & rabbits & squirrels & delicate wildflowers

saw the earth bare & smooth, austerely plastic & efficient

men feeding hydroponically, working like ants

thought flatly, without regret (I have unlearned

regret)

‘ WHAT BEAUTIFUL CREATURES

USED TO LIVE ON THE EARTH ’





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #40


for Emmet Grogan





if the power of the word is anything, America, your oil fields

burning

your cities in ruins, smouldering, pillaged by children

your cars broken down, at a standstill, choking the roads

your citizens standing beside them, bewildered, or choosing

a packload of objects (what they can carry away) if the power of the word lives, America, your power lines down

eagle eyed lines of electric, of telephone, towers

of radio transmission

toppled & rankling in the fields, setting the hay ablaze

your newspapers useless, your populace illiterate

wiping their asses with them,

IF THE WORD HAS POWER YOU SHALL NOT STAND AMERICA, the wilderness is spreading from the parks von

have fenced it into, already

desert blows through Las Vegas, the sea licks its chops

at the oily edges of Los Angeles,

the camels are breeding, the bears, the elk are increasing

so are the indians and the very poor

do you stir in your sleep, America, do you dream of your power pastel colored oil tanks from sea to shining sea?

sleep well, America, we stand by your bedside,

the word has power, the chant is going up





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #41





Revolution : a turning, as the earth

turns, among planets, as the sun

turns round some (darker) star, the galaxy

describes a yin-yang spiral in the aether, we turn

from dark to light, turn

faces of pain & fear, the dawn

awash among them





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #42





what is this

overpopulation’ problem, have you

looked at it, clearly, do you know

ten times as much land needed if we eat

hamburger, instead of grain; we can ill fit, not hungry, if we minimize

our needs, RIP OFF LARGE, EMPTY RANCHES, make the

food

nutritious : chemical fertilizers

have to go, nitrates

poison the water; large scale machine farming

has to go, the soil

is blowing away (300 years

to make one inch of topsoil), do you know

40% of the women of Puerto Rico

already sterilized, transistor radios

the sterilization bonus’ in India; all propaganda

aimed at the ‘non-white’ and ‘poor white’ populations

something like 90% of the land of USA

belongs to 5% of the population

how can they hold on

when the hordes of the infants of the very poor

grow up, grow strong





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #43





the map : first goal is health

strong bodies make strong spirit, Venceremos Brigade coming back from Cuba discover they know how to breathe they can get up with the sun; first thing : to zap the sugar habit, get rid of meat & heavy drugs, to eat no chemicals, no processed food first step :

to find out what health feels like : even keel tireless energy pouring steady through

then, prana (vital energy) moving smooth

thru all yr flesh : next goal release

sexual force — strong flesh becomes bright flesh

anger becomes ‘Buddha’s anger’ a steady roar

righteous, behind yr action, not spasmodic, threatens

no self-destruction; loose touch on

brothers & sisters, loose force (& contain it)

Holy Power

to build up, or pull down





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #44


for my sisters





As we know that blood

Is birth, agony

breaks open doors, as we

cann bend, graciously, beneath burdens, undermine

like rain, or earthworms, as our cries

yield to the cries of the newborn, as we hear

the plea in the voices around us, not words

of passion or cunning, discount

anger or pride, grow strong

in our own strength, women’s alchemy, quick arms

to pull down walls, we liberate

out of our knowledge, labor, sucking babes, we

liberate, and nourish, as the earth





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #45





And it seems to me the struggle has to be waged on a number of different levels :

they have computers to cast the I Ching for them

but we have yarrow stalks

and the stars

it is a battle of energies, of force-fields, what the newspapers

call a battle of ideas

to take hold of the magic any way we can

and use it in total faith

to seek help in realms we have been taught to think of

as ‘mythological’

to contact ALL LEVELS of one’s own being

& loose the forces therein

always seeking in this to remain psychically inconspicuous

on the not so unlikely chance

that those we have thought of as ‘instigators’

are just the front men for a gang of black magicians

based ‘somewhere else’ in space

to whom the WHOLE of earth is a colony to exploit

(the ‘Nova Mob’ not so far out as you think)

Best not to place bodies in the line of fire

but to seek other means : study the Sioux

learn not to fuck up as they did — another ghost dance

started on Haight Street in 1967

We ain’t seen the end of it yet





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #46





And as you learn the magic, learn to believe it Don’t be ‘surprised’ when it works, you undercut your power.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #47





TO BE FREE we’ve got to be free of any idea of freedom.

Today the State Dept lifted the ban on travel to China; and closed Merritt College.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #48





Be careful.

With what relief do we fall back on the tale, so often told in revolutions that now we must

organize, obey the rules, so that later

we can be free. It is the point

at which the revolution stops. To be carried forward

later & in another country, this is

the pattern, but we can

break the pattern

learn now we see

with all our skin, smell with our eyes too

sense & sex are boundless & the call

is to be boundless in them, make the joy

now, that we want, no shape

for space & time now but the shapes we will





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #49





Free Julian Beck

Free Timothy Leary

Free seven million starving in Pakistan

Free all political prisoners

Free Angela Davis

Free Soledad brothers

Free Martin Sobel

Free Sacco & Vanzetti

Free Big Bill Hayward

Free Sitting Bull

Free Crazy Horse

Free all political prisoners

Free Billy the Kid

Free Jesse James

Free all political prisoners

Free Nathan Hale

Free Joan of Arc

Free Galileo & Bruno & Eckhart

Free Jesus Christ

Free Socrates

Free all political prisoners

Free all political prisoners

All prisoners are political prisoners

Every pot smoker a political prisoner

Every holdup man a political prisoner

Every forger a political prisoner

Every angry kid who smashed a window a political prisoner

Every whore, pimp, murderer, a political prisoner

Every pederast, dealer, drunk driver, burglar

poacher, striker, strike breaker, rapist

Polar bear at San Francisco zoo, political prisoner

Ancient wise turtle at Detroit Aquarium, political prisoner

Flamingoes dying in Phoenix tourist park, political prisoners

Otters in Tucson Desert Museum, political prisoners

Elk in Wyoming grazing behind barbed wire, political prisoners

Prairie dogs poisoned in New Mexico, war casualties

(Mass grave of Wyoming gold eagles, a battlefield)

Every kid in school a political prisoner

Every lawyer in his cubicle a political prisoner

Fvery doctor brainwashed by AMA a political prisoner

Every housewife a political prisoner

Fvery teacher lying thru sad teeth a political prisoner

Every indian on reservation a political prisoner

Every black man a political prisoner

Every faggot hiding in bar a political prisoner

Every junkie shooting up in john a political prisoner

Every woman a political prisoner

Every woman a political prisoner

You are political prisoner locked in tense body

You are political prisoner locked in stiff mind

You are political prisoner locked to your parents

You are political prisoner locked to your past

Free yourself

Free yourself

I am political prisoner locked in anger habit

I am political prisoner locked in greed habit

I am political prisoner locked in fear habit

I am political prisoner locked in dull senses

I am political prisoner locked in numb flesh

Free me

Free me

Help to free me

Free yourself

Help to free me

Free yourself

Help to free me

Free Barry Goldwater

Help to free me

Free Governor Wallace

Free President Nixon

Free J Edgar Hoover

Free them

Free yourself

Free them

Free yourself

Free yourself

Free them

Free yourself

Help to free me

Free us

DANCE





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #50





Machinery : extended hands of man

doing man’s work. Diverted rivers

washing my clothes, diverted fire

dancing in wires, making light

and heat. To see it thus is to see it, even

diverted rivers must resume their course, and fire

consume, whatever name you call it.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #51





As soon as we submit

to a system based on causality, linear time we submit, again, to the old values, plunge again into slavery. Be strong. We have the right to make the universe we dream. No need to fear ‘science’

grovelling

apology for things as they are, ALL POWER

TO JOY, which will remake the world.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #52





Don’t give up the eleven o’clock news for

Chairman Mao, don’t switch

from one ‘programming’ to another

hang loose, Mao was young

fifty years ago, & in China.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #53





SAN FRANCISCO NOTE

I think I’ll stay on this earthquake fault near this still-active volcano in this armed fortress facing a dying ocean & covered w/dirt

while the

streets burn up & the

rocks fly & pepper gas

lays us out

cause

that’s where my friends are,

you bastards, not that

you know that that means

Ain’t gonna cop to it, ain’t gonna

be scared no more, we all

know the same songs, mushrooms, butterflies

we all

have the same babies, dig it

the woods are big.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #54





HOW TO BECOME A WALKING ALCHEMICAL EXPERIMENT

eat mercury (in wheat & fish)

breathe sulphur fumes (everywhere)

take plenty of (macrobiotic) salt

& cook the mixture in the heat

of an atomic explosion





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #55





It takes courage to say no

No to canned corn & instant mashed potatoes.

No to rice krispies.

No to special K. No to margarine

mono- & di-glycerides, NSDA

for coloring, causing cancer. No to

white bread, bleached w/nerve gas (wonder

bread). No to everything fried

in hardened oil w/silicates. No to

once-so-delicious salami, now red

w/sodium nitrate.

No to processed cheeses. No

no again to irradiated bacon, pink

phosphorescent ham, dead plastic

pasteurized milk. No to chocolate pudding

like grandma never made. No thanx

to coca-cola. No to freshness preservers,

dough conditioners, no

potassium sorbate, no

aluminum silicate, NO

BHA, BHT, NO

di-ethyl-propyl-glycerate.

No more ice cream? not w/embalming fluid.

Goodbye p

otato chips, peanut butter, jelly, jolly white sugar!

No more DES all-American steaks or hamburgers either!

Goodbye, frozen fish! (dipped & coated w/ aureomycin)

Fried eggs over easy w/

hormones, penicillin & speed.

Carnation Instant Breakfast, Nestle’s Quik.

Fritos, goodbye! your labels are very confusing.

All I can say

is what my daughter age six once said to me :

‘if I can’t pronounce it maybe I shouldn’t eat it. ’

or, Dick Gregory

coming out of a 20-day fast :

‘the people of America are controlled

by the food they eat’





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #56





All thru Amerika

all I see & find is

Indian America

the forms & shapes of

Great-Turtle-Island





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #57





The forms proliferate.

As we spin (further) from the light

our bodies sprout new madnesses

congenital pale disease, like new plants

on the edge of (radioactive) craters

we sprout new richness of design

baroque apologies for Kaliyuga

till Kether calls us home

hauls in the galaxies like some

big fish.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #58





NOTES TOWARD AN AMERICAN HISTORY

Over & over we look for

the picture in the cloth : man

standing idle & tall against

horizon : ‘savage’ landscape

we stare, poverty-struck

at New England pewter in

farmhouse window : quote

Adams, Jefferson, hew

map of the sacred meadow

this was the

land we were promised,

wasnt it? is Fresno

new Jerusalem? where

is Dallas? how wd Olson/

Pound/Tom Paine explain

Petaluma. Over & over Kirby Doyle

mad

tells tale of his grandfather walking out

of the desert

his wife & two sons waiting in a wagon

(he had the mule)

& the boats

in Gloucester, Newfoundland & Greece

(the same)

the wood

carved in Alaska & New Guinea

(the same) . . .

Over & over we seek that savage man sufficient & generous; we find Rockefeller, Nixon;

sad letters of Jefferson

mourning the ravaging of moundbuilders’ land

requesting his daughter not to neglect her French.

We; over & over; seeking line & form

gold-leaf as in Sienna

'outline’ as Blake

we sit on shifting ground

at the edge of this ocean

'as far from Europe as you can get’

& watch the hills flicker like dreamskin





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #59





What we need to know is laws of time & space

they never dream of. Seek out

the ancient texts : alchemy

homeopathy, secret charts

of early Rosicrucians (Giordanisti).

Grok synchronicity Jung barely

scratched the surface of.

LOOK TO THE ‘HERESIES’ OF EUROPE FOR

BLOODROOTS

(remnants of pre-colonized pre-Roman Europe) : Insistent, hopeful resurgence of communards free love & joy; ‘in god all things are common’ secret celebration of ancient season feasts & moons. Rewrite the calendar.

Head-on war is the mistake we make time after time

There is a way around it, way to outflank

technology, short circuit ‘energy crisis’ ; retreat & silence

cunning

ourage & love





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #60





Look to the cities, see how ‘urban renewal’

tears out the slums from the heart of town

forces expendable poor to the edges, to some

remote & indefensible piece of ground :

Hunters Point, Lower East Side, Columbia Point

out of sight, out of mind, & when bread riots come

(conjured by cutting welfare, raising prices)

the man wont hesitate to raze those ghettos

& few will see, & fewer will object.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #61





First Observable Effects of So-Called ‘Energy Crisis’ (Fall 1973)

1. off-shore drilling renewed, Santa Barbara & elsewhere we can expect

new off-shore wells to be opened regardless of consequences

2. price of crude oil shoots sky-high, making the extraction of shale oil feasible (profitable) which shale oil territory has been prepared

for exploitation by forcing beef prices up, advocating

beef boycotts, forcing

smaller ranches toward bankruptcy

3. Peabody Coal plans to occupy Cheyenne land on legal grounds ‘natives’ are incapable’

of exploiting its ‘natural resource,’ i.e. don’t want to extract minerals at the cost of the land

4. grim austerity consciousness empty shelves & stiff upper lip

& plenty of hoarding, reminiscent of early 40s, conditioned reflex right psychological climate for WW III

5. of course, police & military will have enough gas & how will you like

to be stationary populace in the grip of a mobile army?





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #62





Take a good look

at history (the American myth)

check sell out

of revolution by the founding fathers

‘Constitution written by a bunch of gangsters

to exploit a continent’ is what

Charles Olson told me.

Check Shay’s rebellion, Aaron Burr, Nathan Hale. Who wrote the history books where you

went to school?

Check Civil War : maybe industrial north needed cheap labor, South had it, how many sincere ‘movement’ people

writers & radicals played

into their hands?

Check Haymarket trial : it broke the back of strong Wobblie movement : how many jailed, fined, killed to stop that one? What’s happening to us has happened a few times before

let’s change the script

What did it take to stop the Freedom Riders What have we actually changed?

month I was born

I hey were killing onion pickers in Ohio

Month that I write this, nearly 40 years later

they’re killing UFW’s in the state I’m trying somehow to live in. LET’S REWRITE the history books.

History repeats itself

only if we let it.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #63





check Science : whose interest does it serve?

whose need to perpetrate

mechanical dead (exploitable) universe

instead of living cosmos?

whose dream those hierarchies : planets & stars

blindly obeying fixed laws, as they desire

us, too, to stay in place

whose interest to postulate

man’s recent blind ‘descent’ from ’unthinking’ animals

our pitiable geocentric isolation :

lone voice in the stars

what point in this cosmology but to drain

hope of contact or change

/oppressing us w/ ‘reason’





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #64


for Camilla Hall





The holocaust

moves

towards its own

ends.

The rose will bloom in the lotus pond.

The lotus will flower

on the rose tree.

In the enclosed garden

which is

the garden of mirrors

a temple of mist

rises.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #65


For Tim Leary





Let everything private be made public. — Chas. Olson





Let everything private be made public!

We have had enough of secrecy, paid assassins, radio

controlled robots, mysterious disappearances, planted evidence, men’s doubles arrested in their stead in funky rooming houses whose landladies disappear,

thinly-veiled race war, fake shortages, inflation, night raids, manipulated famine,

transistors in brain, overdoses of tranqs, truth serum, interrogation.

It is very boring to spend the 1970’s in Nazi Germany, or Stalinist Russia,

we have already seen this movie & it don’t look better / in

color.

Even they must be tired of it, these latter-day Nazis,

skulking & posing, plotting & counterplotting, each suspicious of the other

PROGRAM TO RELIEVE THEIR MURKY BRAIN-CELLS

& THE SOULS OF ALL SENTIENT BEINGS:

Out w/it, brothers! Let’s everybody tell everything they

know

We’ll have a press conference in the form of ancient

confession where each can absolve his fellow. It may take a decade but in the end : No prisons, no schools, no madhouses, no IRS, no IBM, no ITT, no governmentt

A decade well-spent ....

TO THE PATRIARCHS

for Inez Garcia

‘That a man’s body is

in itself a weapon in a

way that a woman's body

is not. ’ —Free Inez Garcia Committee

My body a weapon as yours is

MY CHILDREN WEAPONS ETERNALLY

My tits weapons against the immaterial

My strong thighs

choking the black lie

My hips

haven & fort

place where I stand

& from which I fight

My war is concentrated in the noise

of my hair

My hands

lethal to imprecision

My cunt a bomb exploding

yr Christian conscience

My teeth tear out the throat of yr despair

My jaws annihilate computer centuries

My arms/my knees embrace yr serpent

yr sin becomes my song

Hie shock waves of my pleasure

annihilate

all future shock

all future shock forever





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #67





ANOTHER WYOMING SONG

silk sari is famine,

prayer is famine,

stone idol washed by seawind

also famine

song on crumbling streets

is famine

moonstone necklace

sandalwood essence

perfect buddha caves — all famine

teddy bear in Macy’s window, famine

tobacco bursting from Virginia soil

coal mines famine; oil field famine

new car famine

I got the toe-nail, boot-sole, bootlegging wagon famine

cracked lips & all.

yesterday famine

tomorrow famine

iron wind breaking up the sandy ground like famine

like hunger to the heart,

got let’s-turn-these-stones-to-bread famine

burnt baby famine

wish I knew

& you do too

how to avert, turn aside

African famine

Egyptian famine

Sioux famine

Navaho famine

Mesopotamian famine

Easter Island famine

Tahitian famine

Sumerian famine

Sonoran famine

Hindu famine

mountain famine

woodland famine

desert famine

tundra famine

great plains famine

Papago famine Kvanston famine

Chicago famine

Casper famine

Bozeman-to-Billings famine

Minneapolis famine

Nevada sagebrush famine

Little Italy famine

Harlem famine

Chinatown famine

Tibetan famine

Third World famine

I mirth dimension famine

Fifth estate famine

hungry ghost famine

Black panther famine

Oakland famine

Omaha famine

Amazon famine

Macchu Picchu famine

alcohol famine

opium famine

Bengali famine

Brooklyn famine

ALL THE BELLIES IS SWOLLEN

some from too much

some from too little

all like to burst — only the crows, no famine

hyenas not hungiy

buzzards not hungiy

jackal, coyote, eagle

filling up

a feast before they die

like we die

on dying land





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #68





LIFE CHANT

may it come that all the radiances will be known as our own radiance — Tibetan Book of the Dead

cacaphony of small birds at dawn may it continue

sticky monkey flowers on bare brown hills may it continue

bitter taste of early miner’s lettuce may it continue

music on city streets in the summer nights may it continue

kids laughing on roofs on stoops on the beach in the snow may it continue

triumphal shout of the newborn may it continue

deep silence of great rainforests may it continue

line austerity of jungle peoples may it continue

rolling fuck of great whales in turquoise ocean may it continue

clumsy splash of pelican in smooth bays may it continue

astonished human eyeball squinting thru aeons at astonished

nebulae who squint back

may it continue

clean snow on the mountain may it continue

tierce eyes, clear light of the aged may it continue

rite of birth & of naming

may it continue

rite of instruction

may it continue rite of passage

may it continue

love in the morning, love in the noon sun love in the evening among crickets may it continue

long tales by fire, by window, in fog, in dusk on the mesa may it continue

love in thick midnight, fierce joy of old ones loving may it continue the night music

may it continue

grunt of mating hippo, giraffe, foreplay of snow leopard

screeching of cats on the backyard fence may it continue without police

may it continue without prisons

may it continue

without hospitals, death medicine : flu & flu vaccine may it continue

without madhouses, marriage, highschools that are prisons may it continue without empire

may it continue in sisterhood

may it continue thru the wars to come

may it continue in brotherhood

may it continue tho the earth seem lost

may it continue thru exile & silence

may it continue with cunning & love

may it continue as woman continues

may it continue as breath continues

may it continue as stars continue

may it continue

may the wind deal kindly w/us may the fire remember our names may springs flow, rainfall again

may the land grow green, may it swallow our mistakes

we begin the work

may it continue (he great transmutation

may it continue a new heaven & a new earth may it continue may it continue





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #69





MATALGALPA, 1978

These eyes of children closer than fingernail set

in my hand

these

maimed villages closer than my heart

beating

pressing

against my lungs.

A form of love

all touch is

and what

does not touch something?

at least

the air, the ground.

These eyes

of triumphant children

the blood

bursts thru

as the gentle

villages

are strafed

the blood

bone muscle

burning

but the forests

are full

the deserts

on the move

the jungles

The eyeballs nl children burst

whisper RESIST.



w/blood

& love

or te cities

of America

the center

of the killer tornado

the cities yes

the cities of

Amerika fill

w/Resistance

the dream

of old men & women

stranded

mi her sidewalks

seeking food, seeking

freedom

finding

only insult

EVEN THESE CITIES ARE FULL nl I riumphant resistance

& the dream of the old

Is echoed in the young.

‘All artists

are warriors’

sez my son & he

nge eight

is sure.

Eyes of the children

Managua

New York

Matalgalpa

Houston

Soweto

Manila

Teheran

Bogota

Oakland

eyes & hands

Knives & guns

of the children

Peru

Zimbabwe

Mexico

eyes & hands

knives & guns

of the children.

These eyes of children

windows

on our hope :

that

ALL RESISTANCE IS

TRIUMPHANT RESISTANCE.

All love

is revolution

& all touch

a form of love.

The moment of revolt is the moment of victory.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #70





FROM SAN FRANCISCO

out of the heaps of the bodies of ‘suicides,’ as we must call all suicides who have leaped to incarnation on this planet;

out of the stench of jungle-exploded flesh, pall and haze of what we conceive as destruction;

in the stunned and muted clamor of a city which has lost for whatever reason its mayor, and (unprecedented) a loved politician;

as the solstice struggles, as every year, toward darkness, and the nights are longer than sleep and only the bright clangor of Orion’s wardrobe rings In the dusty sky;

in the resurgence of fifties paranoia—thirties paranoia—sixties paranoia—which generation do you claim?—

It comes clear

this dark is the light we love by, and that we love at all a miracle in the cloned styrofoam wastes & desolations of our lives.

This dark a song of burgeoning difference, flesh at least, and loved and loving however blindly.—See the dance :

we may disdain

Castro Street, curse the baths, criticize the women’s movement, turn our backs on revolution, mock the growth awareness human potential bullshit, but it is song and passion when set against the worlds of middle America middle Russia hinduism islam china.

We spin out light in a dark time, grow it at cost out of the incandescence of flesh we still call living, and all the fingers of the night point home to us.

Think : the cauldron

of rebirth in which the robot dead return to life, from which they burst at dawn to the same hollow battle—this is the tale spun out and spun again, the only tale the media tells your children;

that we reach out hand to hand or twine our ankles in our chilly beds is breath of shame to a nation gone to death; rigor mortis the grin of their pride, the stiff necks of 900 corpses a metaphor they drink

hungry as Aztecs to still the movement in the skies. Whose hand moves in Iran, who is choking the Eskimo in his condominium, sets the Angolan in his compound, drives the Masai sterile? But that is old news, and only the pygmy flutes carry it to the stars.

That, and an occasional

eaglebone whistle of the Ute straggling thru the last sundance in the high plains.

On whose world is the sun going down, sisters and brothers? Dare we claim it, dare we lose it again? But that is old news, and it is whispered that sol invictus is only invictus so far.

It is no longer relevant—who cares if the CIA was disposing of plutonium thru People’s Temple, or Emmet Grogan was offed on a subway train? The plots and subplots : rauwolfia and DMSO, carcinoma 256, the discreetly revealed and scattered dreams of the nouveau-Borgias

petty Napoleons

who’ve forgotten Egypt; emasculated robber barons sucking their wives’ lovers’ cocks in the boiler room;

in the dark all

news is old news, the only glimmer the lambent marshlight of our flesh as we gesture towards difference, a burgeoning race of mutants,

gorging on drugs, come, California wine, richness of fruit and meat on a planet spinning toward famine;

perverse

and mushrooming cadence of phosphorescent loves, falling to compost as the sun goes out.

We greet the dark.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #71





FOR BELLA AKHMADULINA





Note : In her great poem ‘I Swear’, written for her forerunner, the poet Marina Tsuetaeva, Bella Akhmadulina vows to ‘kill Yelabuga’, the town in which Tsvetaeva hanged herself in 1941. Akhmadulina addresses the town as if it were some kind of malevolent entity or demon.





A life for a life, a young black

woman’s voice said to me on the

phone the day George

Jackson died in prison and I

said even twenty, a hundred for that

one would be cheap. Even a thousand.

And if I claimed a million

lives for each of my lost, like some

superHitler out to depopulate

the earth, and cd drink, somehow

that blood : this one’s

for you, Freddie, and this for you,

Lee Probst, Genevieve, Gloria still alive but dead and you, Little One we called you & this immensity of gore I drink to you, Jimmy, teacher

and friend. O lost mad Mike, killed brain of Timothy, palsy

In Allen’s face, this one’s

for Warren Miller, nobody knows

they killed. Fred Hampton in his bed, asleep

In blood. Emmett who told us

It wdn’t be ‘overdose’ that got him,

a million lives for each, so what, it wd take four thousand only to finish us all then & I alone cd probably name four thousand.

Listen.

There’s got to be another way, we can’t just kill yelabuga or be killed. Or both.

There’s

anyway here, the ghost dance, or tin

floating as gold in the vessel. I know it’s nonsense

but is it worse nonsense than drinking yourself to death

tonight in some Russian suburb? Here

we’ve got Black Elk’s four horses in the sky

to replace the ones in Revelations. What

have you got? You must have something

I won’t be ‘translated’

alone, or at least w/out female

buddies, I know some of the men will ‘buy’ the ideal but they don’t count, they never carried their flesh grave as lead, there must be a peasant whisper the shape of a hill, or a sneaky look in the eyes of an ancient icon — give me a hint don’t hide & die,

there isn’t enough blood on earth to buy our losses. And blood is salt, it will never quench my thirst. Do we kill, or split

or kill & split

or translate this shit

to a paradise omitting nothing taking nothing

w/us. Gravid, full

of the squirming seeds of our dead

can we

sow the wind?

can we

condense fury till it is

flame

can we use this fuel

to move us out of here,

a flying leap

to another ‘plane’ or ‘sphere’

& I don’t know into what, don’t ask, only

I know it won’t be worse.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #72





A SPELL FOR THE CHILDREN OF THE POOR

Here

is a camera for Obsidian

of Thunder Mountain, Nevada, tour guide

who cares for her mother & all

her brothers & sisters, whose eyes

turn always toward the highway; & a

lifetime supply of charcoal & pens & brushes for Melissa, black girl who lives next door to me in the Fillmore where the grocer refuses to give her eggs if she’s 2¢short & she’s always

2¢ short, her mom

spent the last five dollars on codeine

’cause she hurts &

notebooks by the dozen for Erlinda Shakespeare, Shoshone, age 12 who was afraid to write more on her great long poem ’cause the notebook we gave her (Poetry In The Schools, 1972) was running out & notebooks

cost 35¢

There is enough paper Erlinda, and paint, and a violin for your brother

& all the leotards anybody wants

on Webster St, in

Hunters Point.

Here’s a drum set,

another, take the whole damn

music store,

what are we

holding onto when you guys

are the only art that’s News

August 2, 1984

Thunder Mountain, Nevada





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #73





DREAM POEM ABOUT REAGAN & CO September 24, 1981

When we are dirt poor

and no longer have our mountains for shelter

when we are conquered

and cannot go to our forests for comfort

when we are hungry

and our valleys will no longer sustain us

then we will see these men

in their true light





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #74


JUNE 12, 1982



for Fulcanelli & John Lennon





There is always the fire. Downwind it

blows our eyebrows off, blows holes

in our dusty skin. In the crucible

it melts our faces into knots & puddles

it melts our hearts. And they become rock

or something more feeling than flesh. There is

no way around it, it is there is

always

the fire. Is this alchemy? Must I he process pass thru

10,000 suns? There

lias never been a way around

the crucible. Can the heat of our love excel

tangible flame? Only then

can this crucible

replace

the old. There are even in alchemy ‘two ways’ and this our way can supplant habits of war. It is

‘the dry way’

(no blood,

no tears) only

substantial presence, my hand in yours.

And you a stranger.

There are no

strangers. Now.

This transformation

by the Inward Fire

(our heat / our love)

no

charred limbs, blistered eyeballs, brain turned to steam

only

the Inward Fire, slow combustion / quick change / tomorrow is already here.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #75





RANT

You cannot write a single line w/out a cosmology

a cosmogony

laid out, before all eyes

there is no part of yourself you can separate out

saying, this is memory, this is sensation

this is the work I care about, this is how I

make a living

it is whole, it is a whole, it always was whole

you do not ‘make’ it so

there is nothing to integrate, you are a presence

you are an appendage of the work, the work stems from

hangs from the heaven you create

every man / every woman carries a firmament inside

& the stars in it are not the stars in the sky

w/out imagination there is no memory

w/out imagination there is no sensation

w/out imagination there is no will, desire

history is a living weapon in yr hand & you have imagined it, it is thus that you ‘find out for yourself history is the dream of what can be, it is the relation between things in a continuum

of imagination

what you find out for yourself is what you select

out of an infinite sea of possibility

no one can inhabit yr world

yet it is not lonely,

the ground of imagination is fearlessness discourse is video tape of a movie of a shadow play but the puppets are in yr hand your counters in a multidimensional chess which is divination

& strategy

the war that matters is the war against the imagination all other wars are subsumed in it.

the ultimate famine is the starvation of the imagination

it is death to be sure, but the undead seek to inhabit someone else’s world

the ultimate claustrophobia is the syllogism the ultimate claustrophobia is ‘it all adds up’ nothing adds up & nothing stands in for anything else

THE ONLY WAR THAT MATTERS IS THE WAR AGAINST

THE IMAGINATION THE ONLY WAR THAT MATTERS IS THE WAR AGAINST

THE IMAGINATION THE ONLY WAR THAT MATTERS IS THE WAR AGAINST

THE IMAGINATION

ALL OTHER WARS ARE SUBSUMED IN IT

There is no way out of the spiritual battle There is no way you can avoid taking sides There is no way you can not have a poetics no matter what you do : plumber, baker, teacher

you do it in the consciousness of making or not making yr world

you have a poetics : you step into the world like a suit of readymade clothes

or you etch in light

your firmament spills into the shape of your room the shape of the poem, of yr body, of yr loves

A woman’s life / a man’s life is an allegory

Dig it

There is no way out of the spiritual battle the war is the war against the imagination you can’t sign up as a conscientious objector

the war of the worlds hangs here, right now, in the balance it is a war for this world, to keep it a vale of soul-making

the taste in all our mouths is the taste of our power and it is bitter as death

bring yr self home to yrself, enter the garden the guy at the gate w/the flaming sword is yrself

the war is the war for the human imagination

and no one can fight it but you / & no one can fight it for you

The imagination is not only holy, it is precise it is not only fierce, it is practical men die everyday for the lack of it, it is vast & elegant

intellectus means ‘light of the mind’

it is not discourse it is not even language

the inner sun

the polis is constellated around the sun

the fire is central





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #76


ANOTHER REVOLUTIONARY LETTER, 1988 (Gestapo Poem)





Where is gestapo, where does it end? Where Is it? Soweto, it is. Where does it end? Not Oakland, it doesn’t not B’nai Brith.

Where

Is it? Gaza, it is. Where

Is it? San Quentin, it is. Where?

Peru. Where? Paris. Where? in Bonn

& Prague & Beijing, it is

In Yellow River Valley. Where

Is it? Afghan, Guatemala, Rio,

Alaska, Tierra del Fuego, the

wasted taiga, it is

where is it?

& where

does it end.

Not in

Oakland, it doesn’t,

not in London. Not in the Mission.

Don’t end in Brooklyn

or Rome. Atlanta. Where?

Morocco, gestapo is Sudan (& death)

Where end? not Canada sold to

Nazi USA

not Mexico, Kenya, Australia

it don’t, not end

Jamaica, Haiti. Mozambique

not end. Maybe

someplace it isn’t maybe

someplace it ends

some hills maybe

still free

but hungry

(eyes

blaze



over ancient guns





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #77





AWKWARD SONG ON THE EVE OF WAR

The center of my heart is Arab song.

It is woven around my heartstrings

I cannot uproot it.

It is the song of the Beloved as Other The Other as God, it is all about Light and we never stop singing it.

The root of my brain

(the actual stem and medulla)

is the Tree of Life.

It is the story we have all been telling The story of the journey and return

It is all about Light and we never stop telling it.

I cannot uproot this Tree from the back of my head

I cannot tear this Song out of my heart

I cannot allow the two to war in my cells.

Phis is a prose poem and it is didactic

It remembers the perfumes of Lebanon, lapis of Persia

The mountains, ziggurats, ladders of ascent The hut in the field we entered as Her body.

The fabric of our seeing is dark & light

Ahriman / Ahura the two lobes of the brain. Or yin and yang.

The paintings of Turkestan echo in caves

of North China. The Manichee’s eyes are carved In Bone Oracles.

I cannot cut the light from my eyes

or the woven shadow from the curves of my brain.

The dance of the I Ching is the dance of the star tide Mathematics of the Zend Avesta Geometries of Ife

There is only one Sun and it is just rising

The golden ikon of the Black Virgin stands at the stone gateway of Tashkent.

The flowering valleys of Shambhala haunt our dreaming.

What skeletons stalk there?

Do you see?

If even the plants send out warnings to each other If even the brine shrimp mourn each other’s passing .

My eyes stare from ten thousand Arab faces A deer sniffs at the stiffening corpse of her yearling.

There is only one Sun and it is rising

It is much too strong in the desert of our minds.

Shield us from the desert of greed The desert of hate

Shield us from the desert of chauvinism Le désert désespéré Desperate desert of no song, no image Shield us from the desert of no return

That Arab song burst out of mountain cave That fine-worked silver glisten in the sun

Loving, yes, loving, woman,

and digging on each other

thousands of years,

digging the differences. . . .’

Let the gold-clad men and women

dark skins gleaming

dance at the stone gates :

Shiprock, New Grange, Tashkent

Let the goddess walk again on the African plains

The Orisha brighten the air

1'here is only one Sun and it is rising.

May the peaches of Samarkand bloom in the Okanagan.

Reprise :

There is nothing we have been that we will be None of the myths suffices.

I jet us read each other’s maps at the foot of the Tree Where the stream of Song moves out in all directions.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #78





BULLETIN

It is happening even as you read this page. By the time you finish reading this it will be over.

She will have left the hotel and disappeared. He will have eaten the pills. That one will slip and crack her skull on the floor. That one will go out in a driveby shooting.

halfway around the world the bombs are dropping

As you read these words it is already too late. 200,000 children will have starved. One of them held the Jewel in his brain, another could cure plagues with her breath.

As you read this line one thousand have died of AIDS. They die alone hidden in furnished rooms. They die on the earth all over Africa.

halfway around the world the bombs are falling

Do not think to correct this by refusing to read.

It happens as you put down the paper, head for the door. The ozone reaches the point of no-return

the butterflies bellyflop, the last firefly, etc.

Do not think to correct this by reading.

The bombs burst the small skull of an Arab infant the silky black hair is stuck to your hands with brains. W/bits of blood. There is less shrieking than you would expect

a soft silence. The silence of the poor, those who could not afford to leave. Drop flowers on them from yr mind, why don’t you? ‘I guess we’ll have to stay and take our chances.’

They die so silently even as we speak

Black eyes of children seek eyes of the dying mother

bricks fall dirt spurts like fountains in the streets.

In the time you fill a cup they die of thirst.

In the time it takes to turn off the radio.

Not past, not future

The huts are blazing now. South of Market a woman OD’s with an elegant sigh. No more no less than is needed.

halfway around the world the bombs are dropping





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #79





ONE OF THE JOBS OF CRONEDOM

(written on the eve of the first Gulf War)

Some of us have to mourn

while the rest of you

organize.

Some of us have to dance

in the time of grief.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #80





GOOD CLEAN FUN

It’s terrorism, isn’t it, when you’re afraid to answer the door

for lack of a Green Card

afraid to look for work, walk into the hospital when yr child

is sick,

and what else than terrorism cd you call those smallpox

blankets we gave the Indians the trail of tears, the raids on Ghost Dancing tribes It’s terrorism when you’re forbidden to speak yr language paddled for it, made to run a hundred laps in the snow In your thin & holey sneakers. What do you call it when you’re locked in yr high school classroom, armed

policemen

manning the halls? Isn’t it terrorism to force a young woman

to talk to her parents abt her clandestine love

the child she will or will not carry? Is it terrorism

to shoot striking onion workers (1934), pick off AIM members

one by one?

What happened to the Hampton family in Chicago — Fred

Hampton blown away in his bed — would you call that terrorism? Or the MOVE kids in

Philadelphia

bombed in their home. Or all the stories we don’t know buried in throats stuffed w/socks, or pierced w/bullets.

Wd you call it terrorism, what happened at Wounded Knee or the Drug Wars picking off

the youth of our cities — as they already picked off twenty years ago — or terrified into silence — the ones who

shd be leading us now —

you know the names.



What was COINTELPRO if not terrorism? What new initials

are they calling it today?

Is Leonard Peltier a victim of terrorism?

Is Mumia Abu-Jamal?

Is it terrorism if you are terrified

of the INS, the 1RS, the landlord, yr boss, the man

who might do yr job for less?

if you’re scared of yr health insurance

no health insurance

scared of yr street, yr hallway, scared every month you might not get to the 1st and the next measly check?

Is it terrorism to take food from hungry school-kids?

To threaten teenagers who still have hope enough have joy enough to bring babies into this mess?

How has terrorism touched you, shaped your life?

Are you afraid to go out, to walk in yr city, yr suburb, yr

countryside?

To read, to speak yr own language, wear yr tribe’s clothes? Afraid of the thin-shelled birds w/twisted necks poisoned by nitrates, by selenium?

Afraid that the dawn will be silent, the forests grey?

Is it terrorism to fill the Dnieper River w/radiation? or heat the ionosphere w/magnetism ‘to see what will happen A wonderful weapon, they say, it will perturb the weather pattern, disrupt communications Who are the terrorists in the lumber wars?

(the water wars are coming)

And we haven’t even talked about AIDS and cancer.

IS THE ASSAULT ON NATIVE INTELLIGENCE & GOOD WILL THAT WE CALL THE EVENING NEWS ANYTHING OTHER THAN AN ACT OF TERROR?

What was the Gulf War but terrorism

wearing the death mask of order? — one big car bomb it was the guys who drove it dying now one by one — ignored

Is acid rain a form of terrorism? (Think for yourself.)

Is GATT or NAFTA anything but a pact among brigands —

the World Bank, the IMF their back-up men? How long before they fight over the spoils? Who’ll do their

fighting for them?

Is Alan Greenspan perhaps the biggest known & named of our terrorist leaders, here, nurtured here, trained here

the dark design of whose hearts makes

Hutu & Tutsi

Croat & Muslim & Serb

mere diversionary tactics before the onslaught

— 1992





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #81





ON THE WAY HOME

(A Prayer for the Road)

On the way home

all the restaurants will serve miso soup On the way home

exotic notebook stores will blossom in small towns in Nevada

On the way home

Utah will be festooned w/mirth

Mormons will be dancing in the streets in gauzy chatchkas

On the way home

Everyone will leave the casinos and the slot machines & go

outside

to stare at the beauty of the mountains, of the sky, of each

other

On the way home

All the boys & girls in the secret desert bordellos will have set up temples of free love festooned with mimosa they will teach karma-mudra to joyful redneck ranchers who have set all their cows free and now drink only amrita

On the way home

every cafe in Wyoming will be holding a potlatch poverty will thus be abolished

On the way home

everyone we meet will try to read us a poem invite us in for a story there being no news but what travellers bring, all TV having died

On the way home

it will be easy to find pure water, organic tomatoes, friendly

conversation

We’ll give & receive delightful music & blessings at every gas

station

(all the gas will be free)

On the way home

all the truck drivers will drive politely

the traveling summer tourists will beam at their kids

our old Toyota will love going up mountain passes openhearted & unsuspicious people & lizards prairie dogs, wolves & magpies will sing together & picnic at sunset beside the road

Everyone will get where they’re going

Everyone will be peaceful

Everyone will like it when they get there

All obstacles smoothed

auspiciousness & pleasure

will sit like a raven dakini

on every roof





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #82





Avenging

angels

sticks of dynamite wrapped in baby blankets

baby

blue

like their eyes

not

human

elemental

eyes

spewing

fire

carbines

shot

guns

it doesn’t matter

pale

pixie

faces

elfin

smiles

laughing

I’ve always

wanted

to do

this

wanted

to see you dead o comrade

see me dead

o beautiful

long-legged maiden o sour-faced

teacher of wood-shop of home

economics

always

wanted to see you

dead as a door nail

as this bomb full of nails

blasting so beautiful

into the wood the glass

the plaster

into

flesh

red

as tampons or lipstick

o beautiful black-eyed

maiden

dark

skin like inadrone

blood like livers

river canyons which echo

only echo only repeat nothing

is added the ground

is dead

the air

you see? dead also

these shots

awaken

ghosts or spirits

in the arms

of bare

trees marked for death

the scream of the saws

scream of the logging trucks subway

scream

out of all yr

throats

ivory

brown

or golden

young or old air dead

the rivers marked for death

this scream



spatter

of bullets brings air

alive

for a moment something

alive

I stand w/ my friends

this gallant

force

young / dead

long / lost

condemned

to a pittance

of hope

we stand proud

give back

the legacy

dead ground dead

mother

dead

rivers

& empty

plains

O the full lips hard thighs

beloved

comrades

whose black

daring



cuts a path

for

rivers

of blood

buys red life for a

moment w/

death

yours

mine

my

it doesn’t

matter not

really

I avenge the babies

beaten the mother

w/ dead sex dead eyes

I avenge

myself

violated spitted

on ancient rotted cocks avenge

the planet

torn

& bloody

This charnel ground

we were born

into

dancing

ground

O beautiful lads & lasses we mourn

we buy life

fountains

of fire

light

Roman candles of

blood

bits

flesh

moving IN MOTION for once

this trajectory

is vast

not simple

pain

dead grey

prairie

grey

skies

become

instead

a shower of

sparks

fountain

O beautiful

fountains

& rivers of blood.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #83





IN THE WINK OF AN EYE :

Millennial Notes

If Iliad & Odyssey encompass two sides of the great divide — great break w/ the mythic & rise of the wily Then polymetis Odysseus — still a sacred king tho living in the west (zophos) & with shards (shades) of the old time clinging to his robes

degenerates into pius Aeneas — the careful old fart, practical family man & we are lost to ourselves for 1,000 or more years till the aching DULLNESS is too much to bear & we emerge into Tantra

the way of ecstasis : Rumi to Vidal & the Dull Party gets freaked & burns up Provence

and old Dante arises to put a cap on the fire, impose some order on ecstasy

and Willie the Shake tries to see : cd they co-exist? : ecstasy & order — harmony & godseeking freak-out & he doesn’t solve it but he makes some kind of Trembling Equation —

And Blake sez, fuck all this, fuck coexistence, we need, we do need a new spiritual order — & proceeds to make one, sweeping the Romantics along in his wake

And Baudelaire agrees, but won’t come out to play, tries to make a new order inside the shell of the old But Rimbaud sees w/ his seer’s eyes that we are already in it, the spirit, & stark raving naked — we’ll have to leave everything behind

& at first he is thrilled but then cops out — it’s too chilly in outer space w/ no clothes he’d rather die a sleaze-butt bul human for God’s sake

There is only one place to go from there, Thelema — The new spiritual order for real, a western terma, complete with crazy wisdom, the Holy Books

And sometimes, just sometimes the American cats move in on it they don’t know from order they don’t know from clothes — naked in space is OK w/ Melville,

Whitman don’t know from leave behind, blasted with vastness & forlorn w/ blood sickness

this is more than existential crisis

‘just SPACE’

& Pound & Olson bring history along for the ride, the ocean currents & how we followed them

so that Troy falls again, or doesn’t this time — doesn’t this whole thing happen cause Troy fell men stopped wearing perfume & silk brightness fell from the air

the Lady of Heaven got bored, went underground it is

a crisis of spirit — &

the leap out of it beyond it our most recent shot

‘just SPACE’ = Thelema

Hermetic

Definition

a different color different light in the mind





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #84





FEBRUARY 14, 2001

someone

put out a flag

for Valentine’s Day, as if

the domain of the heart

could belong

to this heartbroken nation—





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #85





HEBRON

Shall we

gentlemen

go home now

for the night the

very long night?

The Shekinah sent word

she won’t be coming.

October 5, 2001





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #86





SHORT POEMS ON THE AFGHAN WAR

1.

small bones of mountain children in the snow

2.

bags of rice burst open burlap flaps in the wind even the label 'USA’ is fading

3.

We Air-drop Transistor Radios





can you eat them?

will they

keep you warm?





October 5, 2001





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #87





LES AMÉRICAINS

we are feral rare

as mountain wolves

our hearts are pure

& stupid we go down

pitted against our own





October 5, 2001





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #88





NOTES TOWARD A POEM OF REVOLUTION

It is better to lose and win than win and be defeated.

—Gertrude Stein





1.

What did we in all honesty expect? That fascist architecture flaunting @ the sky

converted now to fluid toxic

smoke, ASH the long finger of

impermanence touches us all & nobody can hog the marbles & expect the others to play





2.

While we mourn & rant for years over our 3000 how many starve

thanks to our greed

our unappeasable

hunger





3.

WATER is rising WIND is blowing

gonna strip the last of

our

cheap & awkward cities

only the music some of the music remains





4.

voice of my daughter

quivering on the phone

as she watches

the towers burn

from her new apartment

the one w/ the view . . .





5.

Gulf War, ’91, my son

@ the demonstration

stops by

to eat

Well, we took out a recruiting station he tells me while the cops

followed the crowd downtown a group of us split off.

I nod &

bite my tongue. Why talk about what happened the year he was born?





6.

Wanted a northwest passage & you’ve got it, Magellan! Henry Hudson, A-mer-eee-go, Da Gama, are you proud

all of you

it took us

only 500 years to melt that Polar ice





7.

And is it suicide when penguins give up? Lie down





8.

Children sold in Africa in India

child labor laws held barely eighty years, now eight-year-olds in brothels dead eyes

who invented this hell?





9.

Black holes in our hearts ground zero

our minds hands

that won’t open let

go





10.

Tell me again how many janitors died in the Towers

how many sandwich makers’ toilet cleaners’

families will get that two-million-per-victim in aid?





11.

lost Montségur, we did lost Prague, the German peasant uprisings lost Andalusia (twice) the Paris Commune

lost @ Haymarket lost

Paul Robeson Spain even lost Dashiell Hammett

lost San Francisco fairly recently





12.

Chuck in his shorts watering his garden

gunned down in the Mill Valley dawn





13.

we hole up enclaves who speak (again) in whispers

as they did when I first came to these cities





14.

don’t mourn don’t organize

strike & move on





November 2001





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #89





INDEPENDENCE DAY 2002

bald eagle

making a come-back

so am I





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #90





ANCIENT HISTORY

The women are lying down

in front of the bulldozers

sent to destroy

the last of the olive groves.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #91


for Gerrit Lansing





T vanish

as the witness

always vanishes.

After the fact.

The Buddha is

the ‘thus come’

but the mark

of the Magus

is ‘to go’

same word.





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #92





WIND tears at the city like the nervous fingers of an invalid unraveling an afghan like the choppy waves of a small New Jersey lake leaving oil scum along the shore Wind picks up plastic bags rolls syringes around in the gutter ruffles feathers of hungiy pigeons chomping on Street Sheet BRING OUR WAR HOME it says & a skinny girl waves her small fist at the heavens Now you read it, hear? said the guy when I gave him my dollar We gotta he says bring the war home like it says Oh I’ll read it all right I tell him, it’s not me you gotta convince I continue under my breath Wind turns a corner rips the camellias off a kind of hedge behind which an american flag hangs discreetly azaleas come apart ranunculus and iceland poppies hold their own Windows rattle pipes bang a tea kettle screeches just so we know inside is no safer than out a breeze moves circumspectly thru the loft and the ficus prepares to drop its leaves





DON’T read the paper listen to the news the names I’m trying to remember were never written not even in cuneiform never written not spoke so’s you cd pronounce them consonants so different the ear cannot distinguish — anguish or laughter is that? — flute tabor what kind of drum no point in learning that alphabet now it’s dust the WIND rules particulate matter from pyres from burning oil wells crushed clay tablets older than the names we know it wd be a mistake to confuse these gods with Ceres with Demeter even Isis





THEY go are gone with their own riding lions carrying emblems we can’t decipher Charm smiling at good mouth that was Kirby Doyle cremated a mere 36 hours ago Missing In Action more poets than you imagine more street urchins teen hustlers with sores that haven’t healed since the Gulf War only the mothers are NOT missing mostly they can’t

afford that luxury STAY why don’t you and rip your chador into bandages STAY and distill pure water from sweat or tears Quick eyes gone under earth’s lid that wd be Brakhage now ten days gone stop we need look no further the most brutal wars are fought on this our own dead soil the





WIND carries as dust to our nostrils / hearts

for two gross of broken statues

a few thousand battered books





April 6, 2003





REVOLUTIONARY LETTER #93





MEMORIAL DAY, 2003

Today is Memorial Day. Take time to remember those brave souls who gave their lives for freedom.

— Dear Abby S.F. Chronicle





Remember Sacco & Vanzetti

Remember Haymarket

Remember John Brown

Remember the slave revolts

Remember Malcolm

Remember Paracelsus

Remember Huey & Little Bobby Hutton

Remember Crazy Horse & Chief Joseph

Remember the Modoc & the Algonquin Nation

Remember Patrice Lumumba

Remember the dream of Africa

Remember Tina Modotti

Remember Makhnov & Tsvetaeva & Mayakovski yes, goddammit, even remember Trotsky

Hey, do you remember Hypatia?

Socrates? Giordano Bruno?

Remember my buddy, Esclarmonde de Foix Remember Seton the Cosmopolite

Remember Edward Kelly, alchemist murdered in prison

Remember to take yr life back into yr hands It’s Memorial Day, remember what you love & do it — don’t wait.

Remember life hangs by a thread — anybody’s life

& then remember the poets :

Shelley & Bob Kaufman

Remember Van Gogh & Pollock Remember Amelia Earhart

Remember it’s not a safe time & all the more reason To do whole-heartedly what you have to do Remember the women & men of Wounded Knee, Kent State, remember where you stand : in the midst of empire, & the Huns are coming.

Remember Vercingetorix, Max Jacob Apollinaire & Suhrawardi, remember

that all you need to remember is what you love Remember to Marry the World
